U.S. News
Hydraulic Fracturing For Natural Gas Extraction
Dylan Williams
Dec. 3, 2015
Hydraulic Fracturing of shale-rock by high pressure injection of “fracking fluid” has greatly increased the production of natural gas and crude oil produced within the United States. With more than one thousand wells or “rigs” currently running, that have used hydraulic fracturing, accounting for 49% of oil and 54% of natural gas produced domestically in February of 2015. More than 2.5 Million wells have been hydraulically fractured to increase the flow of natural gas and crude oil as of 2012. The Marcellus shale field in Pennsylvania is estimated to contain 500 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, enough to power the United States for 50 years at current levels. Fracking has increased domestically and with it has followed a boom in the oil and gas industry limiting the need to import fossil fuels.
Many of the domestic deposits of natural gas and oil are locked inside porous sandstone, limestone, and shale rock formations. Traditional oil and natural gas extraction techniques involved the simple drilling of a vertical well shaft and pumping of fluid back to the surface for further refining. Early miners would sometimes set off small explosions in their wells to increase gas and oil flow. 
Hydraulic Fracturing is a technique that allows wells to be drilled vertically then take an angle change up to 90 degrees. These wells can target with greater accuracy the strata of rock that the oil and gas is trapped in. The fracking fluid cannot be compressed and under high pressure the surrounding rock fractures. With further fracturing of the rock strata with a high pressure injection of fracking fluid the release of natural gas and oil is increased greatly.
This technique uses high powered hydraulic pumps that inject fracking fluid down the well to fracture the surrounding rock formation. Fracking fluid extends fractures in the rock formation usually sandstone, limestone, or shall, and transport the contents of the well to the surface for further refining and disposal. Chemicals in the fracking fluid include: acids, detergents, and other poisonous chemicals that are not federally regulated. 
Bi products of the Fracking Process include: the salty slurry from the natural brine in the soils of the well, spills of oil or fracking fluid, land lose from drill sites, large water use, and un-wanted gas burn off.
Leftover fracking fluid and brine are deposited in deep wells that have been linked to local seismic activity as well as some cases of ground water contamination.
Hydraulic fracturing has recently increased globally greatly reducing costs for fossil fuels worldwide. Some countries such as Bulgaria, France, Germany, and Ireland have banned the practice. 