Lifestyle
The Art of Being Alone
YASH NEVATIA
Dec. 1, 2015
Solitude was once easily found. Travelers could find peace on deserted islands or calm among the peaks of the himalayas. Jane Goodall is a prime example of someone that found not only serenity but also passion among the forests and chimpanzees of Tanzania. She chose to live among the chimpanzees after the initial invitation, endlessly contributing to primatological research and exploring the rhythm of solitude.
This past summer, attaining solitude was as easy as boarding a train to Germany—and that could be the future. Stuttgart, the home of Porsche, was my first experience of cog-like ignorance. I stayed on the outskirts of town—in a room with a small window, weak wi-fi, and soft yet sharp yelling in German. In these conditions, you shove headphones deep in your ears and tune out; you grab your camera, head out, and keep your head up. You keep your mouth shut and trod along, feet numb and indifferent. You crossover your own paths and familiarize yourself with signs and symbols to reach your destination. You find beauty in the discord and lack of symmetry that makes a city; even the loudest shout is dead silent in this town when you understand no German. You accept that this is the reality of a German metropolis, that this is where people live and thrive, where some lives start and end and know nothing else.
You travel to the top of the state library and look down upon the city that’s known for little more than the automobiles it sends around the world. You empathize with the people that call this home and painfully try to communicate with the fragments of English she knows and the fragments of German you know. You learn of the best place to get a cup of coffee and disregard the stares of locals as looks of envy—you have stellar style and everyone here wants to as be cool as you. A fly on a fender, the only change you make in this city is the number of photos left in your camera’s flimsy memory card. Once you’ve captured all the landmarks and have learned more than anyone should know about why every Mercedes has a three-pointed star, you watch the people—not the locals, the tourists. They’re the ones that make this city. You’re a traveller that silently laughs at the the guide-drunk tourists that trod through the trails with selfie-sticks and fanny-packs.
This solitude among people may be a meaningless paradox, but it could be the only calm remaining in the future. As urbanity consumes what’s left of the wild world, we lose the serene peaks and open farms of the globe—left with dark, cold metropolises dominating. The bliss of serenity is deteriorating as our love for proximity and practicality grows.
Even today, Italy’s Cinque Terre is renowned for its serenity, but among summer months it’s ridden with “big-bones”, big-sunglasses, and big-egos. It’s recommended as a spot to observe the modern American tourist and his foolishness. True travelers are continuously in search of their secret corner of the world that sends their mind adrift; however, these corners are being filled with concrete and built upon to house people as tightly as possible. The true seclusion that we love is that of nature, nurture, and naivety.