sports
The Vow that Fuels the Fire 
Alex Enriquez
Dec. 3, 2015
This Saturday’s PAC-12 Championship game between Stanford and USC marks an important day in long standing rivalry between Stanford and USC. Though many are familiar with the tension between the two schools, the origin of their vendetta is lesser known. 
The feud between Stanford and USC can be traced back to the fall of 1932, when Stanford found itself as just another casualty of USC’s momentus undefeated season. Up to that point, USC had bested Stanford in 9 of their 13 games against one another, and showed no signs of letting up. That loss would prove to be the beginning of the legendary rivalry that we will see played out yet again this Saturday. Two days after losing to USC, Stanford’s then quarterback, Frank Alustiza brought the team of freshmen together and definitively stated “They will never do that to us. We will never lose to USC.” and with the encouragement of halfback Bones Hamilton, they vowed that as long as they were on the team, they would not lose another game to USC. As fate would have it, the “Vow Boys”, as they would come to be known, defeated USC in their next three meetings. By their senior year the “Vow Boys” accumulated an overall record of 25-4-2 and went on to become the first team to play in three consecutive Rose Bowls, ultimately winning their final game together against SMU in the 1936 Rose Bowl. 
From a distance it would appear that their rivalry has become increasingly one sided with USC winning 60 of their 93 games against Stanford. Though the trend has been in the favor of the “Vow Boys” as of lately, with Stanford winning 6 of their last 10 meetings with USC, including their most recent victory over the Trojans this September. But as history has shown us, especially with these two teams, nothing is certain until the final down is played. As for the upcoming PAC-12 championship game, expect nothing less than a hard fought game between two teams that have something to prove.