	ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
	ON THE ETHICS OF KAFKA
	YASH NEVATIA
	NOV. 30, 2015
	Franz Kafka, known for his horrific yet unique novels, brings a new dimension of understanding—an undesirable yet necessary perspective—to human life and thinking. He introduces a human to the life of a reptile and an explorer to the judiciary of a primitive civilization, eliciting unusual impulses. In his Metamorphosis and In the Penal Colony, Kafka exposes a reader to the underlying inhumane ethics that his characters practice when placed in absurd circumstances.
	Either story involves a character that a reader can empathize with, or at least relate to, in the midst of the absurd setting; this character is played by Gregor’s sister and the explorer in Metamorphosis and in In the Penal Colony, respectively. Introduced by Gregor as the most loving in his family, his sister is the most helpful relation he has in his strange reptilian life, she brings him food and understands what can help him; “to find out what he liked she brought him a whole selection of food, all set out on an old newspaper” (91). The explorer reacts to the unjust ways of the officer humanely when discussing the justice system: “but surely he knows that he has been sentenced?…no…then he can't know whether his defense was effective?” (197). Kafka establishes the value of human life and general morals of these characters in these scenes. These seemingly humane, relatable, sane people handle these unique circumstances well, at introduction.
	As the stories continue, these calm reactions are forgotten to make way for more repulsive responses to circumstances. With time, both characters, implicitly, strengthen their opposition to the absurd reality that surrounds them. This newfound aversion drives either to act in ways that starkly contrast with the warm nature they initially portrayed. For example, instead of considering what Gregor might enjoy or be able to digest, his sister begins to disregard his appetite: “his sister no longer took thought to bring him what might especially please… [she] pushed into his room with her foot any food that was available” (114). The explorer’s revelation in thinking has a more dramatic representation, threatening colonists of the society to keep them from his world; “[he] lifted a heavy knotted rope from the floorboards, threatened them…kept them from attempting the leap” to join him on his trip back to his homeland. Extended exposure to unfamiliar environments doesn't comfort these characters, rather, it lets them comprehend the absurdity of their associated practices and logic, causing a genuine shift in their ethics.
	An authority on ethics, Immanuel Kant stands by his categorical imperative that practically states that people should make decisions not based on personal desire, but based on what is required to act rationally. Gregor’s sister is the first to practice these ethics when she decides to care for him regardless of her own personal desires, as it’s the rational thing to do when someone is in need. One could say Gregor’s sister is neglecting his appetite because it’s rational for her to spend time supporting the rest of her family and the explorer keeps the colonists from his homeland because it’s rational for him to keep their conceptions of justice from his home; however, these rationalities apply solely to the individual’s and his/her communities’ interests, instead of the universal rationality Kant calls for, good will. Objectively, there’s been a shift of ethics in the sister and the explorer within the story.
	Kafka’s characters are pushed to the point of this shift in ethics, despite their initial, humane warmth that most readers can connect to. These seemingly normal human beings have their perspectives changed by the events of their surroundings and thus lead to their inhumane actions. With the correct amalgam of absurdity, any human could be pushed to put humane ethics and values aside.