U.S. News
No Gun Control
Arturo
Dec. 3, 2015
There has been many issues in the U.S. with guns being used in mass killings all over the nation for the past several years. The shooting in San Bernardino marks the 355th mass shooting this year in the U.S. totaling 462 deaths and 1,314 injured. This number has grown from the 281 mass shootings of last year. These deaths account for under 5 percent of the annual number of gun-related homicides, which is around 11,000 deaths per year. 
What is being done to eliminate these problems? Nothing.
Over the past several years that these events have been going on, nothing has been done in the means of gun control. All around the nation people are demanding to have stricter gun control laws to lower and hopefully end all mass shootings in the U.S. While there are groups like the N.R.A. that suggest that stricter gun control laws will not change a thing. But ultimately, the decision must be made by the government. Just one problem with that, they never come to an agreement on things. 
The Democrats are always pushing for stricter gun control, it`s just how it is. The Democratic party is always for the stricter rules on gun control in order to make the U.S. a safer place. Their ideas for stricter gun control are good ones but the backfire about them is that they do not accommodate for the guns that are being brought and bought illegally in the U.S. Which account for a large amount of these homicides and mass shootings. If there is a plan that can eliminate these illegal fire arms from the streets and from getting in their might be hope for no more gun violence.
The Republicans do not want stricter gun control laws. There views on guns are the exact opposite of the Democrats. They do not think that stricter gun control laws will make a major difference in what is going on with all these shootings. It is more about eliminating the ammount of illegal guns getting into the U.S. as these guns are the ones that account for the majority of these gun related deaths. They will not agree to any Democratic gun control if it is not to eliminate these illegal guns that are getting in.