World News
Foxes Domestication in Russia
Tarun Nair
Dec. 3, 2015
For thousands of years, humans have slowly crafted wild wolves into the various dog breeds we see today through selective breeding. This is a process of choosing behaviors or certain adaptations in two animals and having them reproduce so the offspring inherit the selected genes. While the process of evolving the wolf took 20,000 years, Russian geneticist Dmitry K. Belyaev tried to complete the same process with Siberian Foxes in just one lifetime. Belyaev died in 1985, but he left behind his research for Lyudmila Trut to continue and carry out this project. The aim of this project is to domesticate the foxes into the same behaviors as their distant cousins, the dogs. Foxes can only be classified as domesticated when they follow commands of the owners like dogs do. Belyaev theorized that he could replicate and accelerate the dog’s domestication process with a fox by selecting for tameness and uncover the genetic mechanisms responsible for this behavior. The experiment first began with 130 selected foxes from fur farms that showed the greatest signs of tameness.  Only the foxes that showed a tolerance for his presence and yearning for his attention were allowed to mate while the ones that showed signs of aggression and fear were not. The selected behavior has been passed to 51 generations only to be slowed by a lack of funding for the project. “although we have the occasional anecdote of a fox walking on a leash or another sitting for a treat, no systematic socialization and training program has been launched to test the capacity and willingness of the foxes to respond to classic obedience cues—come, sit, down, stay, and settle— defining characteristics of a domestic canine.” -National Geographic

Lyudmila Trut has had difficulty accumulating grant money for this ongoing project ever since  Russia underwent an economic crisis in 1998 and then again in 2008. She has had to resort to selling some of the foxes to exotic pet traders, each retailing at around $7,000 USD. However the fox trade is not very lucrative and this has consequently lead to the euthanization of many of the animals. For the experiment to continue, fox kits would have to be systematically hand-reared and human-socialized. 
Then they could be trained and tested for their ability and eagerness to respond to classic obedience commands. There are some humane implications of this experiment, which brings to question the ethics of this ongoing project. The foxes are kept in small cages and some are neglected at times to better condition their need for human interaction. Over 50,000 Foxes have been raised and died in these wire cages with no freedom to explore and interact with the others. If this project does not get a substantial budget increase, this whole experiment will be wasted and the suffering and labor that went into it. We may also miss an opportunity to advance our understanding of domestication and genetics. 
