Sports
Can The Panthers go 16-0?
Brandon Byrne
Dec. 3, 2015
Going undefeated is a feat that all aspire to achieve, but few have ever accomplished. Only one team since the NFL’s birth in 1920, the 1972 Miami Dolphins, have gone undefeated throughout their season and added a championship trophy to their case. Others have come within a single game of the coveted perfect season, the most recent being the 2007 New England Patriots who lost in the Super Bowl in heartbreaking fashion to the New York Giants. This season there is another contender vying for not just the Super Bowl title, but the title of undefeated team as well. 
The Carolina Panthers were all but counted out before the season began. After a 7-8-1 record in the 2014-15 season, and what was considered poor drafting and shoddy off-season acquisitions put the Panthers at the bottom of the predicted NFC South standings, behind a Buccaneers team that had posted a 2-14 season the previous year. 
When the season began, the Panthers refused to lose, posting impressive victories over the Saints and Buccaneers early in the season. As well as a come from behind victory against the Seahawks, the team responsible for the Panther’s defeat in the Divisional round of last years’ playoffs. 
As the season progressed, teams that had posted undefeated seasons in tangent with the Panthers began to falter. Their division rival Falcons were off to a 5-0 start to the season, but have suffered losses in five of their last six since. The Packers went 6-0 before losing to the also undefeated at the time Denver Broncos, who lost the very next week. 
When week twelve of the regular reason came, only the Panthers and Patriots remained undefeated. The Patriots had their dreams of a second undefeated regular season in eight years crushed by a backup quarterback led Broncos team; while the Panthers continued their winning streak on Thanksgiving day, defeating the Cowboys handily 33-14. 
With only one team remaining in the race to undefeated glory, many people are beginning to take the Panthers seriously. 
When looking at the undefeated teams of the past, most tend to look towards the schedule as a major contributing factor in their success. In this respect the Panthers are no different. Coming into the season the Panthers were given the 27th ranked schedule; and after going 11-0, their schedule is rewarding them with one of the easiest remaining schedules in the league. 
A dilapidated Saints team who comes into the match up with the 30th ranked rushing defense and the 31st passing defense will be easy work for the high powered Panthers. The Falcons have stalled since their 5-0 start to the season but remain their toughest test, matching up with the Panthers in weeks 14 and 16 and sport the 5th ranked overall offense. The Giants pose a slight threat to the aspirations of the Panthers’ perfect season dreams. This game will be decided on the shoulders of the Panthers number 2 ranked Cornerback Josh Norman to shut down the second year receiver Phenom Odell Beckham. But the turnover prone Eli Manning will have to have one of his best games of the season if his Giants have a hope in ending another undefeated team’s run at glory. The Buccaneers are the final matchup of the regular season, and if the Panthers reach 15-0 this shouldn’t be much of a test for them. Rookie quarterback Jameis Winston has thrown 10 interceptions this year, 9th among quarterbacks. With the Carolina defense having a league high 18 interceptions, the Buccaneers have an uphill battle if they want to end the Panthers potential perfect season. 
The Panthers have one of the weakest remaining schedules in the NFL. Of their remaining matchups, only the Falcons have a winning record. On top of that the Panthers star Quarterback Cam Newton has thrived in December, posting an impressive 14-3 record since entering the NFL. Newton is already having an MVP season, posting 20 passing touchdowns with 7 more on the ground, easily the most by a quarterback this year. 
Not to be outshined however is the Panthers third ranked running back Jonathan Stewart, and second ranked lock down defense. The Panthers have the making of one of the leagues all time great teams, as long as they stay the course, there is no reason why the Carolina Panthers shouldn’t join the elite group of regular season unbeatens. 









Source

"Statistics." NFL Stats: Team. NFL.com. Web. 4 Dec. 2015. <http://www.nfl.com/stats/team>.

