U.S. News
A Living Wage
Yash Nevatia
Oct. 30, 2015
	Most of economics aims to comprehend the aspects that lead to a given result, usually a single number, i.e. the number of apples sold; yet, the number of these aspects is infinite (apple popularity, nutritional value, appearance, weather, price, and more) and comprehending all of them is untenable. Many businesses today try to understand how paying, at minimum, a living wage may affect their performance; politicians and business owners claim that research has yielded varying results, and thus there is still no policy requiring corporations to pay living wages. Studies of cities and businesses that require or only pay living wages show that performance of said cities and businesses has not hindered (due to additional costs), if not excelled due to the increased productivity and quality of its workforce.
	The largest concern from a business perspective of paying a living wage is lesser returns. In his Pay is Too Damn Low, James Surowieki finds that so long as a business doesn't completely rely on paying its workers a minimum wage to make a profit, like McDonalds or Target currently do (these companies will need to rethink their business models for the future), paying a living wage doesn’t falter the business’ performance. This finding is a major proponent for businesses to pay their workers a living wage. Although the performance of the business may not falter, owners may claim they’ll need to dismiss a significant number of workers, like those written of in Steven Greenhouse’s Fight for $15.37 an Hour.
	Raising the wage indeed does change the rate at which workers are hired; for example, in a comparison between a Boston firm that raised wages and another comparable firm that didn’t: the former hired 22.1 full-time equivalent (FTE) employees as opposed to the latter that hired 22.4 (Brenner)—note that the difference between these values is less than 1.4%. Similarly, the job loss experienced by LA workers after a mandatory wage increase was less than 1.4% (Fairris), as referenced by Greenhouse’s story. In fact, the well referenced study of the San Francisco Airport’s (SFO) shift to pay a minimum wage, there was a 15% increase in jobs despite San Francisco city’s overall increase of 1% due to the concurrent recession (Reich et al.). The implementation of a living wage causes a negligible negative if not positive impact on the job market and no negative impact on the performance of appropriately modeled businesses. The most encouraging reason for a business to raise wages is the increase of quality.
	The recession of 2008 drove many corporations to cut wages and fire employees, but some found that “the act of valuing workers can pay off in the form of increased sales and productivity”. Companies like Costco and Trader Joe’s look at “employees as assets to be maximized” and thus boast sales per labour hour as high as 167% of average rates among similar stores (Quinton). Valuing employees by means of training, wages, and benefits causes increased productivity and performance. The primary argument against taking such measures is the high costs of implementation.
	The initial costs of this change will usually keep a publicly-held company, unlike Trader Joe’s, from showing its investors profits for a given quarter. The act of valuing the lower-level employees of a company is an investment, and it does come at a cost; investors behind QuikTrip understand that by accepting a few losses, in the long run, they will earn more money and make more sales by valuing their employees (Quinton). MIT has even constructed a living wage calculator (Glasmeier) that “firms can use to estimate how to pay their employees fairly” (Lam). Businesses choosing to further value their customers will follow in the footsteps of not only Trader Joe’s and Costco, but also notably successful retailers like Walmart and IKEA, all increasing the productivity and quality of their workforces as they do so (Glasmeier).
	Instead of trying to understand the impact of raising their wages to those that allow for their employees to comfortably live, business leaders should look to the studies of businesses and cities that have implemented such systems—most of which have been undeniably successful. There’s no need to consider all the aspects of raising wages because research shows that it only brings benefits to all the parties involved when practiced.