	ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
	Conceptions of Communism, Layout of Love
	YASH NEVATIA
	NOV. 10, 2015
		Milan Kundera’s Unbearable Lightness of Being actively records the emotions, principles and background of two couples’ romance and two communist invasions. His accounts of the relationships and the political turmoil in which they develop accentuate similarities. He exposes the both the differences between conception and reality of the relationship between Tomas and Tereza and those between the intentions of communism and its results of executions and unhappiness.
	The novel begins with the story of Tomas, a doctor from Prague that develops unfamiliar feelings of strong affection for a woman he meets in a nearby town—Tereza. Since his divorce, that he “celebrated [like] a marriage,” Tomas has strongly supported the limited extent of relationships he calls “erotic friendships” (10). He “believes that the only relationship that make both partners happy is one in which sentimentality has no place and neither partner makes any claim on the life and freedom of the other” (12). This conception of happiness supports his physical-oriented partnerships and shields him from the pain of love—he doesn't feel as though love and happiness can coexist. As Tomas’ relationship with Tereza develops, this mentality proves harmful. Tereza felt weaker in light of Tomas’ “infidelities” and entered a “constant state of vertigo—the grip of an insuperable longing to fall—for a man who did not love her” (61). Tomas’ affairs with other women undermines Tereza’s conception of his feelings for her. She feels as though the infidelities are a constant expression of Tomas’ lack of love.
	Despite their flawed conceptions of each other, Tereza and Tomas stay together for the remainder of the novel—a trip to Zurich, political turmoil, and a move to the country—continuously developing their relationship. When Tomas is requested to sign a petition requesting the President of Prague to release all political prisoners, he declines on the grounds of not his own interests, but those of Tereza. Instead of standing by his beliefs, as he did for his Oedipus article, Tomas realizes that “there is only one criterion for all his decisions,” he “could not save political prisoners, but he could make Tereza happy” (219). Tomas has a newfound purpose in life: he wants to make Tereza happy because that’s what will keep him happy. He’s realizes that he can embrace the pains of love and be happy simultaneously. Toward the end of the novel, the couple travels to a hotel from their new country residence where Tereza makes a similar conclusion. She felt guilty for keeping Tomas from pursuing “his mission” of surgery. He says that he’s “been happy here” and that he has “no mission.” “The happiness meant: we are together” (313). Tereza also realizes that Tomas truly does love her and that their happiness is their togetherness. Her conception of Tomas’ lack of love are overcome and she too is happy.
	Tomas and Tereza moved out to the country due to a series of events including Tomas’ controversial publishing in a Prague newspaper on the ideas of communism. Tomas writes that these communist regimes were built by “enthusiasts convinced they had discovered the only road to paradise” (176). Communism was a reaction to the inequalities of monarchial life that Europe endured for many years, and its core supporters thought that it would give rise to the common man and spread prosperity evenly—a happy ideal of the system of governance.
	Although these political ideas were genuine in their hopes of benefitting citizens, their conceptions were not fulfilled by reality. After explaining the intentions of communists, Tomas writes that they “defended that road so valiantly that they were forced to execute many people. Later it became clear that there was no paradise, that the enthusiasts were therefore murderers” (176). The efforts of helping fellow humans on the path to a better life backed by strong beliefs ended in turmoil and death in the form of the executions that the communists performed. The political ideas that the activists held so closely did not perform as expected in reality, separating the realizations of ideas from their warm beginnings of hope.
	Often in both love and governance, realities don’t match the ideas on which they are founded. Tomas and Tereza found love despite his resistance and her fears of infidelity; the communists found executions, fear, and death in pursuit of a fair government. This is the result of mere humans that keep “dreams running through [their minds], turning them into legends” (59).